## [0.2.0] - 2019-08-7

Due to a complete code overhaul, this version is incompatible with previous 
versions of Simphony. Typically, when a release is incompatible, the MAJOR
version number is bumped. However, since this software is still in the first
stages of development, bumping the MINOR version symbolizes major changes
until the version 1 is officially released.

### Added
- Since we only need two of the 'connect' algorithms from scikit-rf, they were
    brought over into this library to reduce the number of dependencies.
- Added test cases using the pytest framework
- Models are now cached during simulation to avoid repeating calculations
- Logging is now the method of choice for getting info messages from the program
- Simulation runtime is now logged at the INFO level
- Documentation! Built using Sphinx.

### Changed
- Simphony is now segmented into three modules: core, simulation, and DeviceLibrary
- New component implementation methods (simphony.core.base.ComponentModel)
- Rebuilt device library to match new component implementations
- Device library no long reads data files for s-parameters, as they've been 
    converted and are now stored as .npz files.
- [#6](https://github.com/sequoiap/simphony/pull/6): ENHANCEMENT: Framework 
    rebuild, allows for easier implementation of custom component models and
    libraries.

### Removed
- Dependencies on scikit-rf, jsons, and matplotlib have been removed.
- Netlist export functionality no longer exists since netlists can be 
    scripted in Python.
